When starting work on a
machine learning project,
one of the most useful
first step to take is to
establish a baseline
and is usually
only after you've established
a baseline level of
performance that you
can then have tools
to efficiently
improve on that baseline level.
Let's dive into
some best practices
for quickly
establishing that base.
Let me use the speech
recognition example.
Let's say you've
established that there are
four major categories
of speech in your data.
Clear speech, which
is when someone
speaks without much
background noise.
Speech with car noise in
the background as if they were in
a car when they use your
speech recognition system.
Speech with people noise in
the background so that
they're outdoors with other
people's out in the background or
speech on a low
bandwidth connection,
what it sounds like
if you're using
a cell phone with a very
bad cell phone connection.
If you accuracy on
these four categories of
speeches, 94, 89, 87,
and 70 percent accuracy,
you might be tempted
to say, well,
it does worse on low
bandwidth audio,
so let's focus our
attention on that.
But before leaping
to that conclusion,
it'd be useful to
establish a baseline level
of performance on all
four of these categories.
You can do that by asking
some human transcriptionists
to label your data and
measuring their accuracy.
What is human level performance
on these four
categories of speech?
In this example, we find
that if we can improve
our performance on clear speech
up to human level performance,
looks like there's a potential
for a one percent
improvement there.
If we can raise our
performance up to
human level performance on
audio of car noise
in the background,
maybe four percent improvement,
two percent improvement and
slightly zero percent improvement
on low bandwidth audio.
Whereas we had previously
said without the human
level of performance,
we may have thought working on
low bandwidth audio
was most promising.
With this analysis,
we realized that
maybe the low bandwidth
audio was so garbled.
Even people, humans
can't recognize what was
said and it may not be that
fruitful to work on that.
Instead, it may be more
fruitful to focus our attention
on improving speech recognition
with car noise in the background.
In this example, using
human level performance,
which are sometimes
abbreviated to
HLP, Human Level Performance,
gives you a point of
comparison or a
baseline that helps you
decide where to
focus your efforts
on car noise data rather
than on low bandwidth data.
It turns out the
best practices for
establishing a baseline
are quite different,
depending on whether
you're working on
unstructured or structured data.
Unstructured data refers
to data sets like images,
maybe pictures of cats or audio,
like our speech recognition
example or natural language,
like text from
restaurant reviews.
Unstructured data
tends to be data
that humans are very
good at interpreting.
In fact, humans evolve
to be very good at
understanding images and audio
and maybe language as well.
Because humans are so good
at unstructured data tasks,
measuring human level
performance or HLP,
is often a good way to
establish a baseline
if you are working on
unstructured data.
In contrast, structured data are
the giant databases or
the giant Excel spreadsheets
you might have,
such as if you run
an eCom website,
the data showing which user
purchased at what time
and for what price,
that will be stored
in a giant database.
This type of data stored in
a giant Excel spreadsheet
or some more robust database
would be an example
of structured data or
your product and inventory data
that would also be stored as
structured data
because humans are not
as good at looking at data
like this to make predictions.
We certainly didn't evolve to
look at giant spreadsheets.
Human level
performance is usually
a less useful baseline for
structured data applications.
I find that machine learning
developments best practice
is quite different,
depending on whether
you're working on
an unstructured data or
structured data problem.
Keeping in mind this difference,
let's take a look at some ways to
establish baselines for both
of these types of problems.
We've already talked about
human level performance
as a baseline,
particularly for
unstructured data problems.
Another way to establish
a baseline is to do
a literature search
for state-of-the-art or
look at open source
results to see
what other's reports they are
able to accomplish on
this type of problem.
For example, if you're building
a speech recognition system and
others report a certain level
of accuracy on data
that's similar to yours,
then that may give
you a starting point.
Using open-source, you may also
consider coming out
with a quick-and-dirty
implementation.
Now, this is going to the system,
but just a quick-and-dirty
implementation that could
start to give you a sense
of what may be possible.
Finally, if you
already have a machine
learning system running
for your application,
then the performance of
your previous system,
performance of your older
system can also help you
establish a baseline that
you can then aspire
to improve on.
What a baseline system
or a baseline level of
performance does is it helps to
indicate what might be possible.
In some cases, such as
if you're using human
level performance,
especially on unstructured
data problems,
this baseline can also
give you a sense of what
is the irreducible error
or what is Bayes error.
In other words, what is
the best that anyone could
possibly hope for in
terms of performance
on this problem,
such as helping us realize that
maybe the low bandwidth audio is
so bad that is just not
possible to have more
than 70 percent accuracy,
as in our earlier example.
By helping us to get
a very rough sense of
what might be possible,
it can help us be much more
efficient in terms of
prioritizing what to work on.
Sometimes I've seen some
business teams push
a machine learning team to
guarantee that the
learning algorithm will be
80 percent accurate or 90 percent
or 99 percent accurate before
the machine learning team
has even had a chance
to establish a rough baseline.
This, unfortunately,
puts the machine learning team
in a very difficult position.
If you are in that position,
I would urge you to
consider pushing
back and asking for
time to establish
a rough baseline level of
performance before giving
a more firm prediction
about how accurate
the machine learning system
can eventually get to be.
It helps you to make your case,
feel free to tell them
that I asked you to do so.
I think establishing that
baseline first will help
set you and your team up
better for long-term success.
Now to tell us about the
importance of baseline,
there are few additional tips
I want to share with you about
how to get started
quickly on the machine
learning project.
Let's go on to the next video
to take a look at
some of these tips.